docs/src/user/manual/home.md, before:

---
title: GeoSight-OS Documentation Home 
summary: GeoSight is UNICEF's geospatial web-based business intelligence platform.
    - Tim Sutton
    - Irwan Fathurrahman
date: 2023-08-03
some_url: https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
copyright: Copyright 2023, Unicef
contact: geosight-no-reply@unicef.org
license: This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#context_id: 1234
---

# The Home Page

![Home Page](img/home.png)

The home page is your first destination when opening GeoSight. It contains a banner and a list of projects to which you have access. The project home page is organised into these areas:

## The Project Gallery 

A project is a collection of indicators, context layers, widgets and filters. These components allow you to understand the operational conditions for a given areas. The projects you have access to may vary depending on whether you are logged in (see 3 below) or not.

## Projects

Each project is displayed in the gallery with:

* a thumbnail representing the theme of the project
* a title for the project
* a short description of the project

If the description overflows the space provided, you can scroll vertically inside the project block to see the additional details. 

## Log In

If you have an account on the platform, you can click the log in link to enter your account credentials.

## Home Link

Wherever you are on the site, clicking this link will return you to this home page.

Commit message:

updated menu and user pages

docs/src/user/manual/home.md, after:

---
title: GeoSight-OS Documentation Home 
summary: GeoSight is UNICEF's geospatial web-based business intelligence platform.
    - Tim Sutton
    - Irwan Fathurrahman
date: 2023-08-03
some_url: https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
copyright: Copyright 2023, Unicef
contact: geosight-no-reply@unicef.org
license: This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#context_id: 1234
---

# The Home Page
![Alt text](img/geosight-home-page.png)

The home page is your first destination when opening GeoSight. It contains 1️⃣ a banner, 2️⃣ a list of projects (either owned by you or shared with you) and 3️⃣ Admin/User menu.

## The Project Gallery 

A project is a collection of indicators, context layers, widgets and filters. These components allow you to understand the operational conditions for a given areas. The projects you have access to may vary depending on whether you are logged in (see 3 below) or not.

## Projects

Each project is displayed in the gallery with:

* a thumbnail representing the theme of the project
* a title for the project
* a short description of the project

If the description overflows the space provided, you can scroll vertically inside the project block to see the additional details. 

## Log In

If you have an account on the platform, you can click the log in link to enter your account credentials.

## Home Link

Wherever you are on the site, clicking this link will return you to this home page.
