docs/src/developer/guide/configuration.md, before:

---
title: GeoSight-OS Documentation Home 
summary: GeoSight is UNICEF's geospatial web-based business intelligence platform.
    - Tim Sutton
    - Irwan Fathurrahman
date: 2023-08-03
some_url: https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
copyright: Copyright 2023, Unicef
contact: geosight-no-reply@unicef.org
license: This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#context_id: 1234
---

# Project Setup

## Clone GeoSight repository

This will clone the GeoSight repository to your machine
```
git clone https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight
```

## Set up the project

This will set up the GeoSight project on your machine
```
cd GeoSight
cd deployment
cp docker-compose.override.template.yml docker-compose.override.yml
cp .template.env .env
cd ..
make up
```
Wait until everything is done.

After everything is done, open up a web browser and go to [http://127.0.0.1/](http://127.0.0.1/) and the dashboard will open:

By Default, we can use the admin credential:
```
username : admin
password : admin
```

## Set up different environment
To set up different environment, for example the Default credential, or the port of server, open **deployment/.env**.
You can check the description below for each of variable.

```
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=geosight
NGINX_TAG=0.0.1  -> Change this for different nginx image
DJANGO_TAG=0.0.1 -> Change this for different django image
DJANGO_DEV_TAG=0.0.1 -> Change this for different django dev image

# Environments
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=core.settings.prod -> Change this to use different django config file
ADMIN_USERNAME=admin -> Default admin username 
ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -> Default admin password
ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@example.com -> Default admin email
INITIAL_FIXTURES=True
HTTP_PORT=80 -> Change the port of nginx

# Database Environment
DATABASE_NAME=django -> Default database name
DATABASE_USERNAME=docker -> Default database username
DATABASE_PASSWORD=docker -> Default database password
DATABASE_HOST=db -> Default database host. Change this if you use cloud database or any new docker container.
RABBITMQ_HOST=rabbitmq

# Onedrive
PUID=1000
PGID=1000
```

After you change the desired variable and do `make up`. It will rerun the project with new environment.

Commit message:

Docs updates for storage volumes and remove kartoza (#59)
* Developer setup guide WIP

* Developer setup guide WIP

* System architecture WIP

* Added design docs etc.

* Describe docker volumes as per issue #1068

* Remove kartoza references in footers etc.

docs/src/developer/guide/configuration.md, after:

---
title: GeoSight-OS Documentation Home 
summary: GeoSight is UNICEF's geospatial web-based business intelligence platform.
    - Tim Sutton
    - Irwan Fathurrahman
date: 2023-08-03
some_url: https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
copyright: Copyright 2023, Unicef
contact: geosight-no-reply@unicef.org
license: This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#context_id: 1234
---

🚩 This document may contain outdated information. Please refer to the [guide](index.md).

# Project Setup

## Clone GeoSight repository

This will clone the GeoSight repository to your machine
```
git clone https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight
```

## Set up the project

This will set up the GeoSight project on your machine
```
cd GeoSight
cd deployment
cp docker-compose.override.template.yml docker-compose.override.yml
cp .template.env .env
cd ..
make up
```
Wait until everything is done.

After everything is done, open up a web browser and go to [http://127.0.0.1/](http://127.0.0.1/) and the dashboard will open:

By Default, we can use the admin credential:
```
username : admin
password : admin
```

## Set up different environment
To set up different environment, for example the Default credential, or the port of server, open **deployment/.env**.
You can check the description below for each of variable.

```
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=geosight
NGINX_TAG=0.0.1  -> Change this for different nginx image
DJANGO_TAG=0.0.1 -> Change this for different django image
DJANGO_DEV_TAG=0.0.1 -> Change this for different django dev image

# Environments
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=core.settings.prod -> Change this to use different django config file
ADMIN_USERNAME=admin -> Default admin username 
ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -> Default admin password
ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@example.com -> Default admin email
INITIAL_FIXTURES=True
HTTP_PORT=80 -> Change the port of nginx

# Database Environment
DATABASE_NAME=django -> Default database name
DATABASE_USERNAME=docker -> Default database username
DATABASE_PASSWORD=docker -> Default database password
DATABASE_HOST=db -> Default database host. Change this if you use cloud database or any new docker container.
RABBITMQ_HOST=rabbitmq

# Onedrive
PUID=1000
PGID=1000
```

After you change the desired variable and do `make up`. It will rerun the project with new environment.
