docs/src/developer/guide/ide-setup.md, before:

---
title: GeoSight-OS Documentation Home 
summary: GeoSight is UNICEF's geospatial web-based business intelligence platform.
    - Tim Sutton
    - Irwan Fathurrahman
date: 2023-08-03
some_url: https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
copyright: Copyright 2023, Unicef
contact: geosight-no-reply@unicef.org
license: This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#context_id: 1234
---

# Setting up your IDE

This section outlines the process for configuring your IDE for development.

🚩 Make sure you have gone through the [Cloning Section](cloning.md) before following these notes.
## VS Code Setup
 
Open the project in VSCode (1️⃣, 2️⃣) by navigating the the place on your file system where you checked out the code in the pre-requisites step above (3️⃣).

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-1.png)

Accept the 'trust authors' prompt

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-2.png)
### Copying the .env

Copy the `template.env` to `.env`
![image.png](./img/ide-setup-3.png)
Edit the `.env` file and change the 

```
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=core.settings.prod
```
to   

```
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=core.settings.dev
```

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-4.png)
### Override Docker Configs
We are going to copy the docker overrides template to a local file that will not be under version control.

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-5.png)

Rename the file to `docker-compose.override.yml`

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-6.png)

Initially you will not need to change anything in this file, though you may want to take a look through the various configurations provided here if you want to tweak your local setup.


Now that you have your IDE set up, we can move on to [building the project](building.md).

## Using pycharm


📒 ⛔️ This section needs to be reviewed and organised into our docs framework.

This section is for using pycharm.

Requirements:

- Pycharm
- Finished **Setting up the project**

## Setup interpreter

1. Go to file -> setting -> Project -> Project Interpreter -> click cog -> add
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/1.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

2. Go to ssh interpreter -> Fill the form like below
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/2.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

3. Click next and fill **docker** as password
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/3.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

4. Click next and change interpreter like below and click finish
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/4.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

5. After finish, it will show all package like below.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/5.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

6. In current page, click **path mappings**, click + button and put local path to where the project (django-project folder) and remote path is like below. and click oK.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/6.png "Project Interpreter")

Now the interpreter is done. When we restart the machine, we need to do `make up` to run the project.

## Setup run configuration

After the interpreter is done, we need configuration to run the project in development mode.

1. Click "Add configuration" like in the cursor in the image below. (top-right)
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/7.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

2. There will be a popup, and click +, then click **django server** like below
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/8.png "Project Interpreter")
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/9.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

3. It will show the form and fill like below.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/10.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

4. Don't click the OK yet, but click **Environment Variables** and add environments like below 9by clicking + button).
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/11.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

5. After that, click OK.

6. Now we need to run the server by clicking **go** button in below image.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/12.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

7. When we click the **go** button, pycharm will run a process until like image below.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/13.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

8. Now it is done. We can access the development server in [http://localhost:2000/](http://localhost:2000/)

This development mode is DEBUG mode, and also whenever we change the code, the site will also change in runtime.

For more information how to set up on pycharm, please visit [Using a Docker Compose-Based Python Interpreter in PyCharm](https://kartoza.com/en/blog/using-docker-compose-based-python-interpreter-in-)



## Quick Setup Guide

⛔️📒 This content needs to be reviewed and moved to the readme.

### Production

```
git clone https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight
cd GeoSight/deployment
docker-compose up -d
```

The web will be available at `http://127.0.0.1/`

To stop containers:

```
docker-compose kill
```

To stop and delete containers:

```
docker-compose down
```

### Development

```
git clone https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
cd GeoSight-OS/deployment
cp .template.env .env
cp docker-compose.override.template.yml docker-compose.override.yml
```

After that, do
- open new terminal
- on folder root of project, do
```
make frontend-dev
```
Wait until it is done
when there is sentence "webpack xxx compiled successfully in xxx ms".<br>
After that, don't close the terminal.
If it is accidentally closed, do `make frontend-dev` again

Next step:
- Open new terminal
- Do commands below
```
make up
make dev
```

Wait until it is on.

The web can be accessed using `http://localhost:2000/`

If the web is taking long time to load, restart geosight_dev container by `make dev-reload`.<br>
The sequence should be `make frontend-dev`, after that run or restart geosight_dev. 

To stop dev:

```
make dev-kill
```

To reload container:

```
make dev-reload
```

Commit message:

Adding fix for set up on Apple silicon devices

docs/src/developer/guide/ide-setup.md, after:

---
title: GeoSight-OS Documentation Home 
summary: GeoSight is UNICEF's geospatial web-based business intelligence platform.
    - Tim Sutton
    - Irwan Fathurrahman
date: 2023-08-03
some_url: https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
copyright: Copyright 2023, Unicef
contact: geosight-no-reply@unicef.org
license: This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#context_id: 1234
---

# Setting up your IDE

This section outlines the process for configuring your IDE for development.

🚩 Make sure you have gone through the [Cloning Section](cloning.md) before following these notes.
## VS Code Setup
 
Open the project in VSCode (1️⃣, 2️⃣) by navigating the the place on your file system where you checked out the code in the pre-requisites step above (3️⃣).

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-1.png)

Accept the 'trust authors' prompt

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-2.png)
### Copying the .env

Copy the `template.env` to `.env`
![image.png](./img/ide-setup-3.png)
Edit the `.env` file and change the 

```
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=core.settings.prod
```
to   

```
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=core.settings.dev
```

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-4.png)
### Override Docker Configs
We are going to copy the docker overrides template to a local file that will not be under version control.

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-5.png)

Rename the file to `docker-compose.override.yml`

![image.png](./img/ide-setup-6.png)

Initially you will not need to change anything in this file, though you may want to take a look through the various configurations provided here if you want to tweak your local setup.

If you are developing on an Apple Silicon or other `amd` devices, set the platform at the top of the `Dockerfile`
```
FROM  --platform=amd64 ubuntu:20.04 AS prod
```  

Now that you have your IDE set up, we can move on to [building the project](building.md).

## Using pycharm


📒 ⛔️ This section needs to be reviewed and organised into our docs framework.

This section is for using pycharm.

Requirements:

- Pycharm
- Finished **Setting up the project**

## Setup interpreter

1. Go to file -> setting -> Project -> Project Interpreter -> click cog -> add
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/1.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

2. Go to ssh interpreter -> Fill the form like below
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/2.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

3. Click next and fill **docker** as password
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/3.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

4. Click next and change interpreter like below and click finish
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/4.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

5. After finish, it will show all package like below.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/5.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

6. In current page, click **path mappings**, click + button and put local path to where the project (django-project folder) and remote path is like below. and click oK.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/6.png "Project Interpreter")

Now the interpreter is done. When we restart the machine, we need to do `make up` to run the project.

## Setup run configuration

After the interpreter is done, we need configuration to run the project in development mode.

1. Click "Add configuration" like in the cursor in the image below. (top-right)
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/7.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

2. There will be a popup, and click +, then click **django server** like below
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/8.png "Project Interpreter")
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/9.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

3. It will show the form and fill like below.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/10.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

4. Don't click the OK yet, but click **Environment Variables** and add environments like below 9by clicking + button).
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/11.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

5. After that, click OK.

6. Now we need to run the server by clicking **go** button in below image.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/12.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

7. When we click the **go** button, pycharm will run a process until like image below.
   <br>![Project Interpreter ](img/13.png "Project Interpreter")<br><br>

8. Now it is done. We can access the development server in [http://localhost:2000/](http://localhost:2000/)

This development mode is DEBUG mode, and also whenever we change the code, the site will also change in runtime.

For more information how to set up on pycharm, please visit [Using a Docker Compose-Based Python Interpreter in PyCharm](https://kartoza.com/en/blog/using-docker-compose-based-python-interpreter-in-)



## Quick Setup Guide

⛔️📒 This content needs to be reviewed and moved to the readme.

### Production

```
git clone https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight
cd GeoSight/deployment
docker-compose up -d
```

The web will be available at `http://127.0.0.1/`

To stop containers:

```
docker-compose kill
```

To stop and delete containers:

```
docker-compose down
```

### Development

```
git clone https://github.com/unicef-drp/GeoSight-OS
cd GeoSight-OS/deployment
cp .template.env .env
cp docker-compose.override.template.yml docker-compose.override.yml
```
If you are developing on an Apple Silicon or other `amd` devices, set the platform at the top of the `Dockerfile`
```
FROM  --platform=amd64 ubuntu:20.04 AS prod
```  

After that, do
- open new terminal
- on folder root of project, do
```
make frontend-dev
```
Wait until it is done
when there is sentence "webpack xxx compiled successfully in xxx ms".<br>
After that, don't close the terminal.
If it is accidentally closed, do `make frontend-dev` again

Next step:
- Open new terminal
- Do commands below
```
make up
make dev
```

Wait until it is on.

The web can be accessed using `http://localhost:2000/`

If the web is taking long time to load, restart geosight_dev container by `make dev-reload`.<br>
The sequence should be `make frontend-dev`, after that run or restart geosight_dev. 

To stop dev:

```
make dev-kill
```

To reload container:

```
make dev-reload
```
